Today we're going to learn about paragraphs including the three parts of a topic sentence details and conclusion.
This video has four parts part one explains what a paragraph is.
Part two is about the topic sentence. Part three explains detail sentences and part four tell us about the conclusion sentence.
Part One: So what is a paragraph?
A paragraph is a group of sentences about one idea. Let's look at an example.
Here's a paragraph, I'll read it. Anna is an excellent student. She is intelligent. She is responsible and
always does her homework, and she is never late for class as a result of her hard work.
Anna is one of the best students in school. So remember we said a paragraph is a group of sentences about one idea
So which sentence tells us the one idea that this paragraph is about
Anna is an excellent student that sentence tells us what the rest of the paragraph is about.
So how many sentences are in a paragraph?
Paragraph has about five sentences. Sometimes you can have fewer, and sometimes you can have more. But usually five sentences is a good number of sentences for a paragraph.
You can see that our example has exactly five sentences.
Remember the first sentence of a paragraph is indented that means there's a space before the first sentence.
Paragraph parts: So how many parts does a paragraph have?
Paragraph has three parts. The first part is a topic sentence.
This tells the main idea or what the paragraph is about.
The topic sentence and our paragraph about Anna is: Anna is an excellent student.
That sentence tells us what the rest of the paragraph is about. The next part of a paragraph is the detail sentences.
These explain and support the main idea. Our example about Ana has three detail sentences.
They explain and support why Ana is an excellent student?
Here are the three detail sentences of our example paragraph? She is intelligent. She is responsible.
Ana always does her homework, and she is never late for class. Do you see how these three detail sentences?
Explain the topic sentence. Because they tell us why Ana is an excellent student?
The last part of a paragraph is the conclusion sentence this sentence reminds us of the main idea.
The conclusion sentence and our example paragraph about Anna is: As a result of her hard work, Anna is one of the best students in school.
This sentence reminds us of the topic sentence that Anna is an excellent student.
The meanings of these two sentences are similar. But we need to use different words in the conclusion sentence than we use in the topic sentence. Do you see how they're similar?
the topic sentence Anna is an excellent student and The conclusion sentence that reminds us of the topic as a result of her hard work
Anna is one of the best students in school
Part two of our video is about the topic sentence
Topic sentence and main idea the Topic sentence tells the main idea so what is the main idea the
Main idea is what the paragraph is about it is the most important idea in the paragraph
The topic sentence has two parts
The topic and the main point Let's look at an example
The topic is who or what you are writing about Let's look back to our topic sentence Anna is an excellent student in this sentence. What's the topic?
Who or what are we writing about? Anna Anna is the topic of our topic sentence?
The main point is What you are saying about the topic so
What are we saying in our topic sentence about Anna?
What is our main point our main point is that she is an excellent student
So the topic and main point give us the topic sentence and the main idea
Now let's practice Topic sentence practice instructions read the paragraph choose the best topic sentence
The topic sentence will go in the blank fruits are delicious
examples of fruits are apples oranges and bananas Fruits have many vitamins and minerals including vitamin C
vitamin E and potassium For these reasons it is a good idea to eat lots of fruit
Question 1. What is the best topic sentence a Everyone loves fruit B. Fruit is a delicious food to eat or see fruit is a healthy and tasty food
pause the video while you work
Question two The topic sentence that you choose goes in the blank
first many schools require two or more years a foreign language study for graduation
Secondly learning other languages. Helps us communicate with people from other countries
Also knowing a foreign language can lead to job opportunities
Finally for many people studying foreign languages is fun there are many reasons to learn a foreign language
Question 2 what is the best topic sentence a in the USA many students study Spanish language
B it is important to learn foreign languages or C in college people need to know foreign languages
pause the video while you work
And three The topic sentence you choose will go in the blank
Children who have a cellphone can call for help in an emergency Also, they can always communicate with their parents
finally cell phones help children stay in contact with friends
For these reasons when possible children should have a cell phone
Question 3. What is the best topic sentence a There are many types of cell phones
being cell phones help children call friends and parents and See having a cell phone can help children in several ways
Pause the video while you work, and then we'll check your answers
Now let's check our answers Question 1. What is the best topic sentence the answer is C fruit is a healthy and tasty food
How do we know that C is the correct answers to know we look back at the detail sentences?
Detail sentence 1 tells us fruits are delicious Detail sentence 2 gives examples of fruits in detail sentence 3 tells us that fruits have many vitamins and minerals
So which topic sentence do all three details support only one? That's topic sentence C
what about topic sentence a Everyone loves fruit. Why isn't that correct well?
Because none of the details tell us about a person who loves fruit The details tell us about fruit, but not about how people feel about fruit so a can't be correct
And what about me? Why is it be correct fruit is a delicious food to eat?
Topic sentence one does tell us that fruits are delicious, but look at topic sentence 3
topic sentence 3 tells us about vitamins and minerals That doesn't support
Topic sentence B below, the only sentence that all three details support is sentence C
Number two what is the best topic sentence the answer is B
How do we know this answer is correct? well We can look back to the detail sentences
Detail sentence 1 tells us that many schools require 2 or more years a foreign language study for graduation
Detail sentence 2 tells us that learning foreign languages can help us communicate with people from other countries in
Detail sentence 3 tells us that knowing a foreign language can lead to job opportunities
all three of these details Explain topic sentence B. They give reasons why it is important to learn foreign languages
Now why can't the answer be a in the USA many students study spanish-language?
That sentence is true Well a can't be our topic sentence for this paragraph because this paragraph never mentions Spanish language
This paragraph is about foreign languages. Not only Spanish language, so it can't be the topic sentence
What about si in college people need to know foreign languages? Well sometimes Senate's see is true, but again
Si can't be our topic sentence for the paragraph because this paragraph doesn't talk only about
foreign languages and to college It talks about other topics so si can't be the topic sentence for this paragraph
Question 3 what is the best topic sentence? The answer is C
having a cell phone can help children in several ways How do we know that's the correct answer again? We look back at the details to see which topic sentence they explained in support
Detail sentence one tells us that cell phones can help children call for help in an emergency
Detail sentence 2 tells us cell phones help children communicate with their parents and detail sentence 3 tells us
cell phones help children stay in contact with friends All of these details explain and support one of the topic sentences
And we know it's C because all of these detail sentences give us reasons that having a cell phone can help children
Now why can't the answer be a there are many types of cell phones? Well does the paragraph discuss types of cell phones
No, it doesn't discuss types of cell phones so a cannot be the topic sentence of this paragraph
And what about me cell phones help children call friends and parents? Well two of the detailed sentences do support this topic sentence
But there's one more, which is detail sentence one about calling for help in an emergency
That details sentence does not support topic sentence B It does support topic Senate seat remember all detail sentences need to explain and support the topic sentence
So the correct answer is C Part three of the video explains detail sentences
Now we're going to talk about detail sentences Detail sentences explain and support the main idea
Sometimes detail sentences give examples sometimes detail sentences give reasons
sometimes detail sentences give steps in a process
Let's look at our paragraph about Anna the topic sentence is Anna is an excellent student
The detailed sentences are she is intelligent She is responsible
Anna always does her homework, and she is never late for class Do these detail sentences give examples?
reasons or steps in a process They give reasons
They all give reasons that the topic sentence is true. They give reasons why Anna is an excellent student
Why because she's intelligent? She's responsible and she always does her homework and is never late for class?
Let's change one of the detail sentences
She is responsible will change that sentence -
She is so beautiful Now does the new detail sentence explain or support the topic sentence, so does she is beautiful
Explain why Anna is an excellent student? No it doesn't
so this sentence doesn't fit our paragraph because all detailed sentences must explain and
support the topic sentence Let's change it again
She always makes eggs
What about this detailed sentence Does the new detail sentence? explain or support the topic sentence so she always makes a z'
Does this detail sentence explain? Why Ana is an excellent student?
Yes, it does so this detail sentence fits the paragraph
Now let's practice detail sentences What we'll do is read a paragraph and choose
One detail sentence that does not belong in the paragraph
I'll read the paragraph aloud People should not drink soda
Soda is an unhealthy drink it contains a lot of sugar This is why soda is so delicious
Also soda contains caffeine and other chemicals that are not nutritious
For these reasons people should avoid drinking soda question 1 which detail sentence does not belong in this paragraph a
This is why soda is so delicious B it contains a lot of sugar or see also
soda contains caffeine and other chemicals that are not nutritious Pause the video while you choose your answer and will check your answers in a few minutes
Number two The best pet to own is a fish
First fish do not require a lot of space secondly fish are easy to care for
Finally there are many types of fish that are beautiful large small and exotic so an owner has many choices of which fish to get of
course some fish are ugly and strange for all of these reasons
fish make excellent pets too Which details sentence does not belong in this paragraph a?
secondly fish are easy to care for be Finally there are many types of fish that are beautiful large small and exotic
so an owner has many choices of which fish to get or See of course some fish are ugly and strange
pause the video while you work
And number three children should not play video games
First children should be active so playing outside is better than playing video games
Secondly many video games are violent However many video games are not violent
Finally time spent playing video games could be spent reading or spending time with friends and family
In conclusion many activities are better for children than playing video games
question 3 which details sentence does not belong in this paragraph a
Secondly many video games are violent B however many video games are not violent or C
Finally time spent playing video games could be spent reading or spending time with friends and family
pause the video while you find the detail sentence that does not belong
Now let's check our answers question 1 which details sentence does not belong in this paragraph
the answer is a This is why soda is so delicious
Let's mark it out Now how do we know that this detail sentence does not belong?
Let's read the topic sentence again People should not drink soda
So all details sentences in this paragraph should explain why the topic sentence is true
That means all of the detail sentences need to explain reasons that people should not drink soda
Sentence a this is why soda is so delicious Does not give a reason that people shouldn't drink soda in fact
This sentence gives a reason that people should or might want to drink soda
Sentences B. And C both do give reasons that people shouldn't drink soda
so those sentences belong in the paragraph a does not belong
Question two which detail sentence does not belong in this paragraph The answer is C of course some fish are ugly and strange
Now how do we know that that sentence doesn't belong? Again, let's look back at the topic sentence
The best pet to own is a fish All details sentences in this paragraph need to explain
Why the topic sentence is true? They need to explain? Why the best pet to own is a fish?
Sentence see of course some fish are ugly and strange Doesn't tell us
Why the best pet to own is a fish in fact that sentence tells us a reason not to own a fish
so that sentence doesn't belong Sentences a and B both do give us reasons why the best pet to own is a fish
So those sentences do belong in the paragraph
Question 3 which detail sentence does not belong in this paragraph The answer is B. However many videogames are not violent
How do we know that that sentence doesn't belong? Let's look again at the topic sentence children should not play video games
Every detail sentence in this paragraph Should give reasons that the topic sentence is true
So they should give reasons that children should not play video games
But sentence B. Actually give a reason that it might be okay to play video games
so OB doesn't belong sentences a and C Do give us reasons that children should not play video games, so those sentences do belong in the paragraph?
Detail sentences more practice instructions each pair has a topic sentence and a detail sentence label each one number one a
The best pet is a dog Be one reason is because dogs are friendly is
a a topic sentence or a detail sentence and
What about B? Is it a topic sentence or a detail sentence?
number two a broccoli has iron and vitamin K
B vegetables are healthy Number three a
Biologists study living organisms, and B one organism
biologists study is cells and finally number four a
some species of flowers are dangerous B hogweed flowers can burn your skin
pause the video while you work Now let's check our answers number one a is a topic sentence B is a detail sentence
How do we know this is true? Because detail sentences give reasons or examples that explain that topic sentences are true
so Detail sentence B. One reason is because dogs are friendly
Gives us a reason that the topic sentence a is true. It gives us a reason why the best pet is a dog
number two a is a detail sentence and B is a topic sentence why
because detail sentence a broccoli has iron and vitamin K
This gives us an example that helps explain the topic sentence be that vegetables are healthy
number three a is a topic sentence and B is a detail sentence why
well the topic sentence a says biologists study living organisms and
Detail sentence B Gives us an example of an organism that biologists study
Details sentence B. Says one organism biologists study is cells
Number four a Is a topic sentence and B is a detail sentence?
How do we know that's correct? Let's look at detail sentence B
hogweed flowers can burn your skin This is an example that topic sentence a is true
This is an example that some species of flowers Now we've reached the last part of the video part 4 about the conclusion sentence
Now let's talk about conclusion sentences The conclusion sentence reminds us of the topic sentence
It is the last sentence in a paragraph It repeats the main idea in the topic sentence, but in different words
It does not give new details In this paragraph our conclusion sentence reads as a result of our hard work
Anna is one of the best students in school
This conclusion sentence reminds us of the topic sentence Anna is an excellent student
It uses different words to say a very similar main idea
Let's change the conclusion sentence instead of what we have now let's change it to
Anna is a top student because she works hard in school So does the new conclusion sentence remind us of the main idea that Anna is an excellent student?
Yes, it does because anna is a top student because she works hard in school is very similar to the idea that Anna
is an excellent student But it uses different words
Let's change it again Now the sentence reads anna is a very good friend to many people at our school
So does the new conclusion sentence remind us about the main idea
That anna is an excellent student No
the main idea in the new conclusion sentence and the topic sentence are completely different one is about
Anna being a friend to people and the other is about anna being an excellent student
the new conclusion sentence does not match this paragraph
Now let's practice conclusion sentences Instructions read the paragraph then choose the answer
Question 1. What is the best conclusion sentence to go in the blank?
I'll read the paragraph and you can choose an answer will check answers in a few minutes
Walking is the best exercise First walking is free so people don't need to buy gym membership to do it
Secondly people can walk wherever they live third Studies showed that walking outside not only burns calories, but also helps a person feel. Happy and optimistic
Question 1 what is the best conclusion sentence a For these reasons walking is an excellent form of exercise
B in conclusion Walking does not cost any money Or C in summary many people love to walk
Pause the video while you choose the best answer
Question 2 what is the best conclusion sentence? families should take a vacation at least once a year on
vacation families can spend time together without distractions from work in school
Also during a trip families can explore new places and activities together which is fun
Finally during their time away families can relax together without the stresses of daily life
Question 2 which is the best conclusion sentence a in summary? Families need vacations together to rest do new activities and enjoy each other's company
B in conclusion families need vacations to see new places and see
finally vacations are good for single people to pause the video while you answer the question
Question three, what is the best conclusion sentence to go in the blank? It is important to study history
History repeats itself so learning about the past can help us make better decisions in the present
also knowing about important historical leaders Wars and events can help us understand cultures people and
politics in today's world Finally learning about unusual people places and events in history is fascinating
What is the best conclusion sentence to go in the blank a in summary history is a popular subject
B this is why everyone loves history and C in conclusion there are many reasons people should study history
Pause the video while you work will check answers in just a moment now
Let's check our answers number one. What is the best conclusion sentence? the answer is a
For these reasons walking is an excellent form of exercise How do we know that this is the correct answer?
Because of a B and C this conclusion sentence most closely matches the main idea in the topic sentence walking is the best exercise
The main ideas are similar, but they use different words We know that conclusion sentence B. Isn't correct in conclusion walking does not cost any money
It isn't correct because it's too specific to be a conclusion sentence
Also walking does not cost any money doesn't match the main idea in the topic sentence walking is the best exercise
Those are different main ideas We know that C Also is wrong in summary many people love to walk this one is wrong
Because our paragraph doesn't talk about people who like or love to walk
This is new information in the paragraph And we can't have new information in our conclusion sentence, so sentence C. Is incorrect a is the only answer
Question two what is the best conclusion sentence the answer is a in summary?
Families need vacations together to rest do new activities and enjoy each other's company
How do we know that this is the correct answer? because the main idea in
Conclusion sentence a most closely matches the main idea in the topic sentence that families should take a vacation at least once a year
Why can't sentence B. Be correct in conclusion families need vacations to see new places that idea is mentioned in the paragraph?
True the idea is mentioned in the paragraph as a detail But there are other details that are mentioned in the paragraph as well
Your conclusion sentence shouldn't match a detail sentence It should match the main idea in the topic sentence which will be a little more general than detail sentences
So sentence B is a little too specific What about Senate C. Finally vacations are good for single people -?
the problem with sentence C Is this paragraph talks about families not single people?
You can't have new information in your conclusion paragraph, so sentence C is
not a correct conclusion sentence for this paragraph
Question three What is the best conclusion sentence? The answer is C in conclusion. There are many reasons people should study history
How do we know this is the correct answer? because of sentences a B and C this one
Most closely matches the main idea in the topic sentence it is important to study history
Why can't the correct answer be a in? Summary these are examples of moments in history
It can't be a because this paragraph gives reasons why it is important to study history
this paragraph does not give examples of moments in history so sentence a doesn't make sense and
Why can't the answer be sentence B. This is why everyone loves history?
Well this paragraph doesn't give reasons that people love history this paragraph gives reasons
Why it's important to study history? Sentence B includes new information about how people feel about history?
We can't include new information in a conclusion sentence so the correct answer is sentencing
Our paragraph practice for today is complete I Hope this video helped you understand what a paragraph is and how to identify each part of a paragraph. Thank you for watching

