Now we're going to learn about paragraphs.
Part 3: Detail Sentences.
You can watch the video and use the worksheet
to take notes and practice while you listen.
This video is one of four videos
that tell all about paragraphs.
This video is Part 3: Detail Sentences.
Before you watch Part 3, I would recommend
that you watch Part 1 that tells what is a paragraph,
and Part 2 about the topic sentence.
Then, after you watch this video, Part 3,
I would recommend that you watch Part 4
about the conclusion sentence.

Part 3 of the video explains detail sentences.
Now we're going to talk about detail sentences.
Detail sentences explain and support the main idea.
Sometimes detail sentences give examples.
Sometimes detail sentences give reasons.
Sometimes detail sentences give steps in a process.
Let's look at our paragraph about Anna.
The topic sentence is, Anna is an excellent student.
The detail sentences are, she is intelligent,
she is responsible, Anna always does her homework,
and she is never late for class.

Do these detail sentences give examples,
reasons, or steps in a process?
They give reasons.
They all give reasons that the topic sentence is true.
They give reasons why Anna is an excellent student.
Why?
Because she's intelligent, she's responsible,
and she always does her homework,
and is never late for class.
Let's change one of the detail sentences.
She is responsible.
We'll change that sentence to,
she is so beautiful.

Now, does the new detail sentence explain
or support the topic sentence?
So, does, she is beautiful,
explain why Anna is an excellent student?
No, it doesn't, so this sentence doesn't fit
our paragraph because all detail sentences
must explain and support the topic sentence.
Let's change it again.
She always makes As.
What about this detail sentence?
Does the new detail sentence explain
or support the topic sentence?
So, she always makes As, does this detail sentence
explain why Anna is an excellent student?
Yes, it does, so this detail sentence fits the paragraph.

Now let's practice detail sentences.
What we'll do is read a paragraph
and choose one detail sentence that does not belong
in the paragraph.
I'll read the paragraph aloud.
People should not drink soda.
Soda is an unhealthy drink.
It contains a lot of sugar.
This is why soda is so delicious.
Also, soda contains caffeine and other chemicals
that are not nutritious.
For these reasons, people should avoid drinking soda.
Question one, which detail sentence does not belong
in this paragraph?
A, this is why soda is so delicious.
B, it contains a lot of sugar.
Or C, also, soda contains caffeine
and other chemicals that are not nutritious.
Pause the video while you choose your answer,
and we'll check your answers in a few minutes.

Number two, the best pet to own is a fish.
First, fish do not require a lot of space.
Secondly, fish are easy to care for.
Finally, there are many types of fish
that are beautiful, large, small, and exotic,
so an owner has many choices of which fish to get.
Of course, some fish are ugly and strange.
For all of these reasons, fish make excellent pets.
Two, which detail sentence
does not belong in this paragraph?
A, secondly, fish are easy to care for.
B, finally, there are many types of fish
that are beautiful, large, small, and exotic,
so an owner has many choices of which fish to get.
Or C, of course, some fish are ugly and strange.
Pause the video while you work.

And number three.
Children should not play video games.
First, children should be active,
so playing outside is better than playing video games.
Secondly, many video games are violent.
However, many video games are not violent.
Finally, time spent video games could be spent
reading or spending time with friends and family.
In conclusion, many activities are better for children
than playing video games.
Question three, which detail sentence
does not belong in this paragraph?
A, secondly, many video games are violent.
B, however, many video games are not violent.
Or C, finally, time spent playing video games
could be spent reading
or spending time with friends and family.
Pause the video while you find the detail sentence
that does not belong.
Now let's check our answers.
Question one, which detail sentence
does not belong in this paragraph?
The answer is A, this is why soda is so delicious.
Let's mark it out.
Now, how do we know that this detail sentence
does not belong?
Let's read the topic sentence again.
People should not drink soda.
So, all detail sentences in this paragraph
should explain why the topic sentence is true.
That means all of the detail sentences
need to explain reasons that people should not drink soda.
Sentence A, this is why soda is so delicious,
does not give a reason that people shouldn't drink soda.
In fact, this sentence gives a reason
that people should or might want to drink soda.
Sentences B and C both do give reasons
that people shouldn't drink soda,
so those sentences belong in the paragraph.
A does not belong.
Question two, which detail sentence
does not belong in this paragraph?
The answer is C.
Of course, some fish are ugly and strange.
Now, how do we know that that sentence doesn't belong?
Again, let's look back at the topic sentence.
The best pet to own is a fish.
All detail sentences in this paragraph
need to explain why the topic sentence is true.
They need to explain why the best pet
to own is a fish.
Sentence C, of course, some fish are ugly and strange,
doesn't tell us why the best pet to own is a fish.
In fact, that sentence tells us a reason
not to own a fish, so that sentence doesn't belong.
Sentences A and B both do give us reasons
why the best pet to own is a fish,
so those sentences do belong in the paragraph.
Question three, which detail sentence
does not belong in this paragraph?
The answer is B, however, many video games are not violent.
How do we know that that sentence doesn't belong?
Let's look again at the topic sentence.
Children should not play video games.
Every detail sentence in this paragraph
should give reasons that the topic sentence is true,
so they should give reasons that children
should not play video games,
but sentence B actually gives a reason
that it might be okay to play video games,
so B doesn't belong.
Sentences A and C do give us reasons
that children should not play video games,
so those sentences do belong in the paragraph.
Detail sentences, more practice.
Instructions, each pair has a topic sentence
and a detail sentence.
Label each one.
Number one, A, the best pet is a dog.
B, one reason is because dogs are friendly.
Is A a topic sentence or a detail sentence?
And what about B, is it a topic sentence
or a detail sentence?
Number two, A, broccoli has iron and vitamin K.
B, vegetables are healthy.
Number three, A, biologists study living organisms,
and B, one organism biologists study is cells.
And finally number four, A, some species
of flowers are dangerous.
B, hogweed flowers can burn your skin.
Pause the video while you work.
Now let's check our answers.
Number one A is a topic sentence.
B is a detail sentence.
How do we know this is true?
Because detail sentences give reasons or examples
that explain that topic sentences are true,
so detail sentence B, one reason is because dogs
are friendly, gives us a reason
that the topic sentence A is true.
It gives us a reason why the best pet is a dog.
Number two, A is a detail sentence
and B is a topic sentence.
Why?
Because detail sentence A, broccoli has iron
and vitamin K, this gives us an example
that helps explain the topic sentence, B,
that vegetables are healthy.
Number three, A is a topic sentence
and B is a detail sentence.
Why?
Well, the topic sentence A says,
biologists study living organisms,
and detail sentence B gives us an example
of an organism that biologists study.
Detail sentence B says, one organism
biologists study is cells.
Number four, A is a topic sentence
and B is a detail sentence.
How do we know that's correct?
Let's look at detail sentence B,
hogweed flowers can burn your skin.
This is an example that topic sentence A is true.
This is an example that some species of flowers.
Detail sentences, the end.
Our detail sentences practice for today is complete.
I hope this video helped you understand
what a detail sentence is and what it does
in a paragraph.
Thank you for watching.