Now we're going to learn about paragraphs
in Part Four: The Conclusion Sentence.
You can watch the video and use the worksheet
to take notes and practice while you listen.
This video is one of four videos
that tell all about paragraphs.
This video is Part Four: The Conclusion Sentence.
Before you watch this video, I would recommend
that you watch part one that tells what is a paragraph,
part two about the topic sentence, and part three
about detail sentences.
This will help you understand how each part
of a paragraph works together.
Now we've reached the last part of the video,
part four about the conclusion sentence.
Now let's talk about conclusion sentences.
The conclusion sentence reminds us of the topic sentence.
It is the last sentence in a paragraph.
It repeats the main idea in the topic sentence
but in different words.
It does not give new details.
In this paragraph, our conclusion sentence reads,
as a result of her hard work, Anna is one of the best
students in school.
This conclusion sentence reminds us of the topic sentence,
Anna is an excellent student.
It uses different words to say a very similar main idea.
Let's change the conclusion sentence.
Instead of what we have now,
let's change it to
Anna is a top student because
she works hard in school.
So does the new conclusion sentence remind us
of the main idea that Anna is an excellent student?
Yes, it does because Anna is a top student
because she works hard in school is very similar
to the idea that Anna is an excellent student,
but is uses different words.

Let's change it again.
Now the sentence reads Anna is a very good friend
to many people at our school.
So does the new conclusion sentence
remind us about the main idea that Anna
is an excellent student?
No.
The main idea in the new conclusion sentence,
and the topic sentence are completely different
One is about Anna being a friend to people,
and the other is about Anna being an excellent student.
The new conclusion sentence does not match this paragraph.
Now let's practice conclusion sentences.
Instructions: read the paragraph, then choose the answer.
Question one: what is the best conclusion sentence
to go in the blank?
I'll read the paragraph, and you can choose an answer.
We'll check answers in a few minutes.

Walking is the best exercise.
First, walking is free,
so people don't need to buy a gym membership to do it.
Secondly, people can walk wherever they live.
Third, studies show that walking outside
not only burns calories but also helps a person feel
happy and optimistic.
Question one: what is the best conclusion sentence?
A. For these reasons,
walking is an excellent form of exercise.
B. In conclusion, walking does not cost any money.
Or C. In summary, many people love to walk.
Pause the video while you choose the best answer.
Question two: what is the best conclusion sentence?
Families should take a vacation at least once a year.
On vacation, families can spend time together
without distractions from work and school.
Also, during a trip families can explore new places
and activities together, which is fun.
Finally, during their time away, families can relax together
without the stresses of daily life.
Question two: which is the best conclusion sentence?
A. In summary, families need vacations together to rest,
do new activities, and enjoy each other's company.
B. In conclusion, families need vacations to see new places.
And C. Finally, vacations are good for single people, too.
Pause the video while you answer the question.

Question three: what is the best conclusion sentence
to go in the blank?
It is important to study history.
History repeats itself, so learning about the past
can help us make better decisions in the present.
Also, knowing about important historical leaders,
wars, and events can help us understand cultures,
people, and politics in today's world.
Finally, learning about unusual people, places,
and events in history is fascinating.
What is the best conclusion sentence
to go in the blank?
A. In summary, history is a popular subject.
B. This is why everyone loves history.
And C. In conclusion, there are many reasons
people should study history.
Pause the video while you work.
We'll check answers in just a moment.

Now let's check our answers.
Number one, what is the best conclusion sentence?
The answer is A,
for these reasons, walking is an excellent form of exercise.
How do we know that this is the correct answer?
Because of A, B, and C, this conclusion sentence
most closely matches the main idea in the topic sentence:
walking is the best exercise.
The main ideas are similar, but they use different words.
We know that conclusion sentence B isn't correct:
In conclusion, walking does not cost any money.
It isn't correct because it's too specific
to be a conclusion sentence.

Also, walking does not cost any money
doesn't match the main idea in the topic sentence,
walking is the best exercise.
Those are different main ideas.
We know that C also is wrong.
In summary, many people love to walk.
This one is wrong because our paragraph doesn't talk
about people who like or love to walk.
This is new information in the paragraph, and we can't have
new information in our conclusion sentence.
So sentence C is incorrect.
A is the only answer.
Question two: what is the best conclusion sentence?
The answer is A,
in summary, families need vacations together
to rest, do new activities, and enjoy each other's company.
How do we know that this is the correct answer?
Because the main idea in conclusion sentence A
most closely matches the main idea in the topic sentence,
that families should take a vacation at least once a year.
Why can't sentence B be correct?
In conclusion, families need vacations to see new places.
That idea is mentioned in the paragraph.

True, the idea's mentioned in the paragraph as a detail,
but there are other details that are mentioned
in the paragraph as well.
Your conclusion sentence shouldn't match
a detail sentence.
It should match the main idea in the topic sentence
which will be a little more general than detail sentences.
So sentence B is a little too specific.
What about sentence C,
finally, vacations are good for single people too?
The problem with sentence C is this paragraph
talks about families, not single people.
You can't have new information in your conclusion paragraph.
So sentence C is not a correct conclusion sentence
for this paragraph.
Question three: what is the best conclusion sentence?
The answer is C,
in conclusion, there are many reasons
people should study history.
How do we know this is the correct answer?
Because of sentences A, B, and C,
this one most closely matches the main idea
in the topic sentence it is important to study history.
Why can't the correct answer be A?
In summary, these are examples of moments in history.

It can't be A because this paragraph
gives reasons why it is important to study history.
This paragraph does not give examples of moments in history.
So sentence A doesn't make sense.
And why can't the answer be sentence B,
this is why everyone loves history?
Well, this paragraph doesn't give reasons
that people love history.
This paragraph gives reasons why it's important
to study history.
Sentence B includes new information
about how people feel about history.
We can't include new information in a conclusion sentence.
So the correct answer is sentence C.
Conclusion sentence, the end.
Our conclusion sentence practice for today is complete.
I hope this video helped you understand
what a conclusion sentence is
and what it does in a paragraph.
Thank you for watching.